README.md, before:

# Compile usage statistics from bookings in a calendar exported to xls files

This notebook compiles statistics from a booking calendar exported to a set of excel xlsx files.

## Step by step installation of python work environment (tested on Windows 10)

The following instruction are for people who never used python before.

### Installing python
- Download miniconda from https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Windows-x86_64.exe
- Run the installer, find a folder without spaces to install it C:\Software\Miniconda3
### Installing Visual Studio code
We can use Visual Studio code as an integrated environement for running the code. We could also use jupyter notebook or jupyter lab.
- Download Visual Studio Code https://code.visualstudio.com/sha/download?build=stable&os=win32-user
- Open Visual Code and on the start page, select clone repository. At the top, copy paste the link to this repository (https://github.com/jboulanger/UsageStats)
- Open the file 'Usage Stats Analytics.ipynb'
- Install python extension and select python interpreter in C:\System\Miniconda3\ when prompted.
### Create an environement
The environement insures that you have all the necessary packages and isolate this configuration for the rest of the system.
In Visual Code or in (conda) terminal:
- Press terminal > new terminal (select a cmd terminal not Powershell)
- Type ```C:\Software\Miniconda3\Scripts\activate C:\Software\Miniconda3\```
- The terminal line should start by ```(base)```
- Create the environment ```conda env create -f environment.yml```
- Activate the environement ```conda activate usagestats```, now the terminal should line should start with ```(usagestats)```.
- Register the kernel for notebooks: ```python -m ipykernel install --user --name usagestats```

## Configuration
The notebook should be at the same level than xlsx files, for simplicity copy the files next to the notebook.

## Usage
- In visual code open the file 'Usage Stats Analytics.ipynb' as a jupyter notebook.
- Select the kernel 'usagestats' at the top right of the notebook.
- Configure the input in the first cell and run all the subsequent cells (Run all) to produce the graphs and csv files.
- If no file 'users.csv' and 'groups.csv' are present use they will be created with 'Unknown' values for groups and divisions. Check the files users.csv and groups.csv and fill out the missing values.
- Run again the notebook to update the graphs.

## Note
The git repository configuration removes the output of the notebook when staging files using a .gitattibutes files and by having the following line in the file .git/config:
```
[filter "strip-notebook-output"]
    clean = "jupyter nbconvert --ClearOutputPreprocessor.enabled=True --to=notebook --stdin --stdout --log-level=ERROR"
```

The environment.yml file was created using:
```
conda env export --no-builds  --from-history | head -n -1 > environement.yml
```
to remove the site specific prefix line.



## Downloading calendars
Calendars are access directly using an http request. For this we need the cookie of the kerio session.

- Go to kerio
- In the top right select integrationwith..
- Press Ctrl-Shift-E
- Select the network tab in the developer tools
- Right click on one item and select the Copy Value> Copy as cURL
- in the copied text identify the section with -H 'Cookie:.....' and copy the par between quotes

## Browse the database manually
sqlitebrowser bookings.db

Commit message:

add guid to find duplicates

README.md, after:

# Compile usage statistics from bookings in a calendar exported to xls files

This notebook compiles statistics from a booking calendar exported to a set of excel xlsx files.

## Step by step installation of python work environment (tested on Windows 10)

The following instruction are for people who never used python before.

### Installing python
- Download miniconda from https://repo.anaconda.com/miniconda/Miniconda3-latest-Windows-x86_64.exe
- Run the installer, find a folder without spaces to install it C:\Software\Miniconda3
### Installing Visual Studio code
We can use Visual Studio code as an integrated environement for running the code. We could also use jupyter notebook or jupyter lab.
- Download Visual Studio Code https://code.visualstudio.com/sha/download?build=stable&os=win32-user
- Open Visual Code and on the start page, select clone repository. At the top, copy paste the link to this repository (https://github.com/jboulanger/UsageStats)
- Open the file 'Usage Stats Analytics.ipynb'
- Install python extension and select python interpreter in C:\System\Miniconda3\ when prompted.
### Create an environement
The environement insures that you have all the necessary packages and isolate this configuration for the rest of the system.
In Visual Code or in (conda) terminal:
- Press terminal > new terminal (select a cmd terminal not Powershell)
- Type ```C:\Software\Miniconda3\Scripts\activate C:\Software\Miniconda3\```
- The terminal line should start by ```(base)```
- Create the environment ```conda env create -f environment.yml```
- Activate the environement ```conda activate usagestats```, now the terminal should line should start with ```(usagestats)```.
- Register the kernel for notebooks: ```python -m ipykernel install --user --name usagestats```

## Configuration
The notebook should be at the same level than xlsx files, for simplicity copy the files next to the notebook.

## Usage
- In visual code open the file 'Usage Stats Analytics.ipynb' as a jupyter notebook.
- Select the kernel 'usagestats' at the top right of the notebook.
- Configure the input in the first cell and run all the subsequent cells (Run all) to produce the graphs and csv files.
- If no file 'users.csv' and 'groups.csv' are present use they will be created with 'Unknown' values for groups and divisions. Check the files users.csv and groups.csv and fill out the missing values.
- Run again the notebook to update the graphs.

## Note
The git repository configuration removes the output of the notebook when staging files using a .gitattibutes files and by having the following line in the file .git/config:
```
[filter "strip-notebook-output"]
    clean = "jupyter nbconvert --ClearOutputPreprocessor.enabled=True --to=notebook --stdin --stdout --log-level=ERROR"
```

The environment.yml file was created using:
```
conda env export --no-builds  --from-history | head -n -1 > environement.yml
```
to remove the site specific prefix line.



## Downloading calendars
Calendars are access directly using an http request. For this we need the cookie of the kerio session.

- Go to kerio
- Press Ctrl-Shift-E to open the developer tools
- Select the network tab in the developer tools
- Right-click on one item and select the "Copy Value> Copy as cURL"
- Paste the text in a text file cookies.txt

## Duplicates
The calendars have GUID that 'uniquely' identify booking events. 
However, modified events and group booking share the same GUID.

## Browse the database manually
sqlitebrowser bookings.db
